thousands of Israelis have taken to the
streets in Tel Aviv and other cities to
protest prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's government many
demonstrators have criticized his
handling of the war in Gaza and some
have called for Netanyahu to step down
they rejoined by the families of
hostages still being held by Hamas at
demanding that Netanyahu bring them home
the protest later descended into clashes
with police Israel believes 130 hostages
remain in Gaza in cluding more than 30
people who are presumed
dead let's get across to Rebecca Ritter
in Jerusalem for more Rebecca thousands
of Israelis turned out to take part here
can you tell us how these protests
compare to previous demonstrations that
we've seen in Tel
Aviv yeah CL uh there's no official
figure of how many were in attendance
last night but some media reports saying
tens of thousands and protest organ
organizers saying some 50,000 people
were out on the streets in Tel Aviv
these are certainly starting to resemble
some of the bigger anti-government
demonstrations we were seeing in the
leadup last year in the leadup to the
war that was against of course plans to
overhaul the Judiciary they then stopped
when the war broke out and uh we we've
been seeing much smaller anti-government
protests continue though the attention
turning to the government's handling of
the hostage situation as you were
mentioning there but what we were seeing
uh what we see certainly last night and
and really in the last couple of weeks
is a change in flavor or fervor of these
protests if you will we're starting to
see them become more angry and more
aggressive uh you mentioned there that
there were scuffles that broke out
people uh were on the highway trying to
block the major highway in and out of
Tel Aviv there were bonfires lit and
police used water cannon and sound
Cannon to try to break up those
protesters uh now what we're also seeing
as well as a change in fervor is the
merging of two separate protests and one
of course being that anti-government
protest I speak of but there have been
weekly rallies a vid that started out as
kind of a vigil if you will for the
hostages uh in support of them we've
been seeing that happen uh since the
beginning really since the first week uh
that they were taken and that is now
moving into to join this anti-government
protest so it's growing in size we saw
some of the hostage families last night
saying this rally is not going to
continue this vigil we're going to take
to the streets and we saw one
spokesperson for the familes Tweet these
rallies are over the protests have begun
so we can potentially uh expect to see
these grow and and change in form we are
expecting protests here in Jerusalem
starting the evening continuing for some
days outside the knesset and they
promise to be even bigger than the ones
we've been seeing in Tel Aviv and
Rebecca we have an Egyptian media report
suggesting that talks aimed at brokering
a truce between Israel and Hamas are set
to resumed today in Cairo can you tell
us what we can expect from the Israeli
side
there yeah we saw those reports
yesterday that's been confirmed now by
the prime minister's office that a
delegation is being sent that delegation
tasked with trying to move these talks
forward the government obviously under
increased pressure as we were just
talking about now 177 days after the
hostages uh were taken they're becoming
under increased pressure to to get some
kind of a deal we've been seeing these
talks ongoing uh for months now uh since
the last breakthrough where we saw more
than a 100 hostages released in November
but we've had no success in the talk so
far they call them rounds but it's
really been one continuing discussion
and you know it's beginning again uh in
uh in Egypt today uh Egypt playing a
major role in those discussions as well
as qat the US uh and of course teams uh
from both from both sides but you know
both sides still having just far too a a
gap in between not being able to to
reach an agreement Hamas demanding for a
permanent ceasefire full withdrawal of
Israeli troops and for people to be
allowed to go back from the south into
Northern Gaza that's something that
Israel are unwilling or unable to agree
to they say that that is T tantamount to
defeat and they will not be able to meet
their military aims of defeating Hamas
they say that more military pressure is
needed on Hamas in order for them to be
able to get the hostages back so you're
seeing two sides really unable to come
to an agreement I think it's unlikely
that we'll see anything firm come out of
these talks of course there's always
hope but as I say these two sides are
still very very far apart Rebecca thank
you that is DW's correspondent Rebecca
riters in Jerusalem for
us the United Nations Secretary General
Antonio gutes has condemned an explosion
in Lebanon on Saturday saying that the
UN peacekeeping mission security must be
guaranteed at all times the UN says it's
investigating a blast from a shell that
struck near the town of Rish close to
the border with Israel three unifil
observers and a translator were injured
Israel and the Lebanese militant group
hasah have been exchanging fire across
the border nearly every day since
October our bureau chief in Beirut
Muhammad sha told us more about the
rising tensions between Israel and
Lebanon hasah have been firing heavy
Rockets into new Israeli uh territory
and and positions and in return Israel
have been uh targeting uh and widening
its its targets inside Lebanon uh
reaching uh the bah Valley and balek
which is relatively far from the uh
Northern from its northern border and
this is a clear extension of the usual
rule of uh engagement between both uh uh
parties now there's a growing fear among
uh Lebanese from a large scale War most
of people we talk to are very concerned
about a war that the country is far from
ready uh for uh on the financial
logistical and and also uh the mental
aspect the country is going through the
worst economic and financial crisis in
lebanon's modern history and barely
functioning uh uh like the the UN the
the um government organizations is uh
barely able to uh uh support the uh uh
citizens in
Lebanon